Our parents loved us,
but they did it in the wrong way.
They would often turn violent,
so we learned that way of life.
I remember that ever since I was young,
I was afraid of coming home one day
and not finding my parents together.
Because as far back as I remember,
they have always argued with each other.
So we grew up with those values
and those ways of thinking
that led us to become
a group that was known and feared
in the area
because of our violent, immoral lifestyle
that was devoted to drugs.
We had no rules!
We were people
that you should stay away from.
It was one of those regular mornings
when we were home alone.
And it became our hideout
—the place we would meet.
We had skipped school,
and our parents didn’t know.
I was with Federico
and Raffaele when two sisters,
two of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
rang the doorbell.
So we had them come in,
so we could make fun of them.
And as a matter of fact, that’s what we did.
I remember that Maria
and the sister that was with her
were two very sincere and genuine people.
They showed courage
as they brought us the truth.
I was surprised that they were so kind,
despite that my tone of voice was mocking.
And I really appreciated their kindness.
She didn’t let anything stop her,
not even the way we looked.
I was really touched
by the conversation with Maria,
but I thought I would never see her again.
Who would ever come back to people like us?
Maria didn’t give up.
She came back with an older pioneer brother
who wasn’t scared of us
and with courage started to preach.
I really started
to change my life and make progress.
Immediately, I started to speak
about what I
was learning with all my friends.
What surprised me was my mother’s reaction.
She wasn’t happy at all.
She reacted really violently.
They thought that I was going mad
—that I was being brainwashed.
I remember that they
would do everything to remind me
of the strong friendship that was between us.
So they would put pressure on me emotionally.
I had to make a choice.
Although I did love them
and was close to them,
I made the drastic decision to tell them
that from then on I would no longer
be staying in their company.
This situation made me really intrigued.
In fact, I ended up studying with Francesco.
His determination really made me think.
It was obvious
that the things he was telling us
were actually real—it was the truth.
And also, the strength
it took to go forward with this
—his determination to leave his friends—
was surely what made
all of us seriously interested
in the message he was preaching.
I would blame it on the truth
because it was taking my friend away from me
—a friend with whom
I used to do the things I liked.
However, inside I knew that even though
I told him he had gone mad,
I knew that inside
there must have been something powerful
because he was so convinced,
and we could all sense his conviction.
So I realized
that there was really something there.
To my surprise, one after the other,
all of my friends started studying the Bible.
As I studied,
I realized that it was the truth.
It used to be hatred
that always motivated my choices.
Now I act according to love,
and this makes me feel good.
I can now say that thanks to Maria
and Francesco,
Jehovah tried to draw me to Him.
I believe it’s been a miracle from Jehovah.
The truth helped me cultivate the qualities
of peace and joy
—the personality that has made it possible
for me to have the family I never had.
The greatest satisfaction I have in life
is to have a relationship with Jehovah.
When I see someone
like we used to be,
I feel motivated to speak to them.
The patience that Maria showed
motivates me to be patient.
Despite our reputation,
Maria did not give up.
She showed us
that in Jehovah’s eyes,
no one is beyond recovery
—no one.